README.md, before:

# Cropt v2 - lightweight JavaScript image cropper
[Github](https://github.com/mindflowgo/cropt/)

Originally based on [Foliotek/Croppie](https://github.com/Foliotek/Croppie), but rewritten as a modern ES module with a simpler API, higher quality image scaling, and numerous other improvements by 
[Devtheorem](https://devtheorem.github.io/cropt/).

It was extensively enhanced (but backwards compatible with v1) to include adjustable viewport, rotation, 
keyboard handling, and various optimizations and bug fixes. And packed to work as browser install, commonJS, 
esm package, etc.


## Installation

```
npm install cropt2
```

## Running Demo

```
npm run build
npm start
```

## Usage

1. Include the `cropt.min.css` stylesheet on your page.
2. Add a `div` element to your HTML to hold the Cropt instance.
3. Import Cropt and bind it to an image:

```javascript
import { Cropt } from "cropt";

let c = new Cropt(document.getElementById('demo'), options);
c.bind("path/to/image.jpg");
```

### Sizing

The Cropt boundary defaults to 320px wide and 320px high.
To customize this, override the `.cropt-container .cr-boundary` width and height via CSS.

## Options

### `mouseWheelZoom`

Type: `"off" | "on" | "ctrl"`  
Default value: `"on"`

If set to `"off"`, the mouse wheel cannot be used to zoom in and out of the image. If set to `"ctrl"`, the mouse wheel will only zoom in and out while the CTRL key is pressed.

### `viewport`

Type: `{ width: number, height: number, borderRadius: string }`  
Default value: `{ width: 220, height: 220, borderRadius: "0px" }`

Defines the size and shape of the crop box.
For a circle shape, set the border radius to `"50%"`.

### `zoomerInputClass`

Type: `string`  
Default value: `"cr-slider"`

Optionally set a different class on the zoom range input to customize styling (e.g. set to `"form-range"` when using Bootstrap).

### `enableZoomSlider`

Type: `boolean`
Default value: `true`

Toggle if hiding the zoom slider.

### `enableKeypress`

Type: `boolean`
Default value: `true`

Toggle if allow listening for keyboard arrow keys for moving image. Will ignore if active element is a user input one (input box, text area, button).

### `resizeBars`

Type: `boolean`
Default value: `false`

Optionally to show resize handles (grab-bars) to adjust the viewport width/height.

### `enableRotateBtns`

Type: `boolean`
Default value: `false`

Toggle if showing rotation buttons beside the zoom slider bar. If both are off (enableZoomSlider and this), the toolbar is hidden.

## Methods

### `bind(src: string, preset: number | { transform, viewport }): Promise<void>`

Takes an image URL as the first argument, and an optional initial zoom value OR preset restore data for image placement in viewport. Returns a `Promise` which resolves when the image has been loaded and state is initialized.

### `destroy(): void`

Deconstructs a Cropt instance and removes the elements from the DOM.

### `refresh(): void`

Recalculate points for the image. Necessary if the instance was initially bound to a hidden element.

### `toCanvas(size: number | null = null): Promise<HTMLCanvasElement>`

Returns a `Promise` resolving to an `HTMLCanvasElement` object for the cropped image. If `size` is specified, the cropped image will be scaled with its longest side set to this value.

### `toBlob(size: number | null = null, type = "image/webp", quality = 1): Promise<Blob>`

Returns a Promise resolving to a `Blob` object for the cropped image. If `size` is specified, the cropped image will be scaled with its longest side set to this value. The `type` and `quality` parameters are passed directly to the corresponding [HTMLCanvasElement.toBlob()](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/HTMLCanvasElement/toBlob) method parameters.

### `get(): { crop: { left, top, right, bottom }, transform: { x, y, scale, rotate, origin: {x, y}}, viewport: { width, height, borderRadius } }`
Returns information about the current crop state (all `numbers`):

- crop: Crop coordinates on the original image (left, top, right, bottom in pixels). (Note: if rotation present, image must be rotated FIRST then crop coordinates will apply)
- transform: Information for re-placement of image within viewport
- viewport: Final viewport dimensions and styling (width, height, borderRadius)

Useful for server-side cropping or saving user selections.

### `setOptions(options: CroptOptions): void`

Allows options to be dynamically changed on an existing Cropt instance.

### `setZoom(value: number): void`

Set the zoom of a Cropt instance. The value must be between 0 and 1, and is restricted to the min/max set by Cropt.

### `setRotation(value: number): void`

Set a rotation factor (0, 90, 180, 270) to the image.

## Visibility and binding

Cropt is dependent on its container being **visible** when the bind method is called. This can be an issue when your component is inside a modal or block that isn't shown (ex. style = display:none).

If you have issues getting the correct result, and your Cropt instance is shown inside a modal, try taking it out of the modal and see if the issue persists. If not, make sure that your bind method is called after the modal finishes opening.

If a Cropt instance needs to be hidden and then re-shown, call the `refresh()` method to recalculate properties for the displayed image.

## Browser support

Cropt is tested in the following browsers:

* Firefox
* Safari
* Chrome
* Edge
* Mobile Safari

Cropt should also work in any other modern browser using an engine based on Gecko, WebKit, or Chromium.

## License

MIT

Commit message:

Moved demo to docs for github publishing

README.md, after:

# Cropt v2 - lightweight JavaScript image cropper
[Github](https://github.com/mindflowgo/cropt/)

Originally based on [Foliotek/Croppie](https://github.com/Foliotek/Croppie), but rewritten as a modern ES module with a simpler API, higher quality image scaling, and numerous other improvements by 
[Devtheorem](https://devtheorem.github.io/cropt/).

It was extensively enhanced (but backwards compatible with v1) to include adjustable viewport, rotation, 
keyboard handling, and various optimizations and bug fixes. And packed to work as browser install, commonJS, 
esm package, etc.


## Quick Start

- Look at the /docs directory for examples.
- Try our [codepen](https://codepen.io/mindflowgo/pen/QwEbegE).

## Installation

```
npm install cropt2
```

## Running Demo

```
npm run build
npm start
```

## Usage

1. Include the `cropt.min.css` stylesheet on your page.
2. Add a `div` element to your HTML to hold the Cropt instance.
3. Import Cropt and bind it to an image:

```javascript
import { Cropt } from "cropt";

let c = new Cropt(document.getElementById('demo'), options);
c.bind("path/to/image.jpg");
```

### Sizing

The Cropt boundary defaults to 320px wide and 320px high.
To customize this, override the `.cropt-container .cr-boundary` width and height via CSS.

## Options

### `mouseWheelZoom`

Type: `"off" | "on" | "ctrl"`  
Default value: `"on"`

If set to `"off"`, the mouse wheel cannot be used to zoom in and out of the image. If set to `"ctrl"`, the mouse wheel will only zoom in and out while the CTRL key is pressed.

### `viewport`

Type: `{ width: number, height: number, borderRadius: string }`  
Default value: `{ width: 220, height: 220, borderRadius: "0px" }`

Defines the size and shape of the crop box.
For a circle shape, set the border radius to `"50%"`.

### `zoomerInputClass`

Type: `string`  
Default value: `"cr-slider"`

Optionally set a different class on the zoom range input to customize styling (e.g. set to `"form-range"` when using Bootstrap).

### `enableZoomSlider`

Type: `boolean`
Default value: `true`

Toggle if hiding the zoom slider.

### `enableKeypress`

Type: `boolean`
Default value: `true`

Toggle if allow listening for keyboard arrow keys for moving image. Will ignore if active element is a user input one (input box, text area, button).

### `resizeBars`

Type: `boolean`
Default value: `false`

Optionally to show resize handles (grab-bars) to adjust the viewport width/height.

### `enableRotateBtns`

Type: `boolean`
Default value: `false`

Toggle if showing rotation buttons beside the zoom slider bar. If both are off (enableZoomSlider and this), the toolbar is hidden.

## Methods

### `bind(src: string, preset: number | { transform, viewport }): Promise<void>`

Takes an image URL as the first argument, and an optional initial zoom value OR preset restore data for image placement in viewport. Returns a `Promise` which resolves when the image has been loaded and state is initialized.

### `destroy(): void`

Deconstructs a Cropt instance and removes the elements from the DOM.

### `refresh(): void`

Recalculate points for the image. Necessary if the instance was initially bound to a hidden element.

### `toCanvas(size: number | null = null): Promise<HTMLCanvasElement>`

Returns a `Promise` resolving to an `HTMLCanvasElement` object for the cropped image. If `size` is specified, the cropped image will be scaled with its longest side set to this value.

### `toBlob(size: number | null = null, type = "image/webp", quality = 1): Promise<Blob>`

Returns a Promise resolving to a `Blob` object for the cropped image. If `size` is specified, the cropped image will be scaled with its longest side set to this value. The `type` and `quality` parameters are passed directly to the corresponding [HTMLCanvasElement.toBlob()](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/HTMLCanvasElement/toBlob) method parameters.

### `get(): { crop: { left, top, right, bottom }, transform: { x, y, scale, rotate, origin: {x, y}}, viewport: { width, height, borderRadius } }`
Returns information about the current crop state (all `numbers`):

- crop: Crop coordinates on the original image (left, top, right, bottom in pixels). (Note: if rotation present, image must be rotated FIRST then crop coordinates will apply)
- transform: Information for re-placement of image within viewport
- viewport: Final viewport dimensions and styling (width, height, borderRadius)

Useful for server-side cropping or saving user selections.

### `setOptions(options: CroptOptions): void`

Allows options to be dynamically changed on an existing Cropt instance.

### `setZoom(value: number): void`

Set the zoom of a Cropt instance. The value must be between 0 and 1, and is restricted to the min/max set by Cropt.

### `setRotation(value: number): void`

Set a rotation factor (0, 90, 180, 270) to the image.

## Visibility and binding

Cropt is dependent on its container being **visible** when the bind method is called. This can be an issue when your component is inside a modal or block that isn't shown (ex. style = display:none).

If you have issues getting the correct result, and your Cropt instance is shown inside a modal, try taking it out of the modal and see if the issue persists. If not, make sure that your bind method is called after the modal finishes opening.

If a Cropt instance needs to be hidden and then re-shown, call the `refresh()` method to recalculate properties for the displayed image.

## Browser support

Cropt is tested in the following browsers:

* Firefox
* Safari
* Chrome
* Edge
* Mobile Safari

Cropt should also work in any other modern browser using an engine based on Gecko, WebKit, or Chromium.

## License

MIT
